README.md, before:

This is a fork of ubasic with the aims of

- Making it smaller (removing lots of the more memory expensive coding)
- Bringing it up to ECMA55 and a bit beyond
- Making it faster (pretokenisation etc)
- Making it run on FUZIX boxen usefully

Currently

- Negative numbers are now supported
- Types for things are a bit clearer as they will matter
- Upper or lower case is permitted
- Errors in the original debugging code are fixed
- Variables may now be A-Z or A0-A9..Z0-Z9 as per ECMA55
- PRINT supports , for tab fields, ; for supressing newline
- PRINT constant string length is unlimited
- INPUT is added including support for a prompt
- FOR NEXT now supports STEP as per ECMA55
- PEEK() is now a function as in normal basic - X = PEEK(4)
- STOP replaces the rather odd "END"
- ABS() INT() and SGN() are implemented
- REM works as in normal BASIC
- DATA and RESTORE are supported but not yet READ !
- AND and OR keywords work (but not yet NOT)
- GOTO and GOSUB allow expressions "computed GOTO")
- GO SUB and GO TO are two tokens so can be spaced
- PRINT TAB() (SPC() is not ECMA55 nor is PRINT AT)
- String variables (A$-Z$ required)
- LEFT$(), RIGHT$(), MID$(), CHR$()
- VAL(),CODE()
- LEN()
- Proper print parsing (we don't allow PRINT ABC printing A then B then C.
  You must as in normal basic use ; or , .

In comparison with ECMA55, then apart from all the floaty stuff it's missing

- IF operators for relation AND/OR relation are messed up
- Arrays (1 or 2 dimensions required by ECMA55). Implicit dimensioning too
- The ^ operator (or ** equivalent)
- RND
- SQR
- DEF FN / FN (single or no variable required by ECMA55)
- READ
- Unquoted data strings

Other useful stuff to add
- XOR
- USR()
- INKEY$
- CLS
- ON expr GO TO/SUB  ... {ELSE}
- ON ERROR
- ON TIMER/SIGNAL
- PAUSE
- Use of ":"
- Short tokens "P." etc
- DO WHILE
- DO UNTIL
- I/O streams PRINT# INPUT# OPEN# CLOSE# etc
- Command mode
- CLEAR
- NEW
- SAVE / LOAD / CHAIN
- Unix syscall bindings 8)

Commit message:

Support for ':'
This also speeds up RETURN and FOR/NEXT loops
Dumped the existing broken IF THEN ELSE parsing.
Real IF THEN ELSE is hard as they stack so it needs a layer of parser to do,
it's also not in ECMA55 or many smaller BASIC interpreters.

README.md, after:

This is a fork of ubasic with the aims of

- Making it smaller (removing lots of the more memory expensive coding)
- Bringing it up to ECMA55 and a bit beyond
- Making it faster (pretokenisation etc)
- Making it run on FUZIX boxen usefully

Currently

- Negative numbers are now supported
- Types for things are a bit clearer as they will matter
- Upper or lower case is permitted
- Errors in the original debugging code are fixed
- Variables may now be A-Z or A0-A9..Z0-Z9 as per ECMA55
- PRINT supports , for tab fields, ; for supressing newline
- PRINT constant string length is unlimited
- INPUT is added including support for a prompt
- FOR NEXT now supports STEP as per ECMA55
- PEEK() is now a function as in normal basic - X = PEEK(4)
- STOP replaces the rather odd "END"
- ABS() INT() and SGN() are implemented
- REM works as in normal BASIC
- DATA and RESTORE are supported but not yet READ !
- AND and OR keywords work (but not yet NOT)
- GOTO and GOSUB allow expressions "computed GOTO")
- GO SUB and GO TO are two tokens so can be spaced
- PRINT TAB() (SPC() is not ECMA55 nor is PRINT AT)
- String variables (A$-Z$ required)
- LEFT$(), RIGHT$(), MID$(), CHR$()
- VAL(),CODE()
- LEN()
- Proper print parsing (we don't allow PRINT ABC printing A then B then C.
  You must as in normal basic use ; or , .
- Faster RETURN and loops - we save the tokenizer pointer rather than mucking
  about playing hunt the line number
- Statements can be separated by :
- Removed the existing IF THEN ELSE in favour of a traditional IF THEN and
  : usage (IF THEN IF THEN ELSE ELSE ... gets horrible to parse and the old
  code messed it up badly)

In comparison with ECMA55, then apart from all the floaty stuff it's missing

- IF operators for relation AND/OR relation are messed up
- Arrays (1 or 2 dimensions required by ECMA55). Implicit dimensioning too
- The ^ operator (or ** equivalent)
- RND
- SQR
- DEF FN / FN (single or no variable required by ECMA55)
- READ
- Unquoted data strings

Other useful stuff to add
- XOR
- USR()
- INKEY$
- CLS
- ON expr GO TO/SUB  ... {ELSE}
- ON ERROR
- ON TIMER/SIGNAL
- PAUSE
- Short tokens "P." etc
- DO WHILE
- DO UNTIL
- I/O streams PRINT# INPUT# OPEN# CLOSE# etc
- Command mode
- CLEAR
- NEW
- SAVE / LOAD / CHAIN
- Unix syscall bindings 8)
- Unify GOSUB/NEXT/etc stack so that RETURN wipes out next frames etc
